---
layout: post
title:  "Architecture Decision Records (ADR) for this site"
tags: software-design jekyll
---
ADR is for architecture what Git's commit log is for code. 
It is a light-weight, append-only, process for documenting changes to a system.

Below is an example of an ADR. It also serves as the ADR for this site.

If you are creating an ADR for your team or organisation, 
you can take a more structured approach,
like this one by [Micheal Nygard](https://github.com/joelparkerhenderson/architecture-decision-record/blob/main/templates/decision-record-template-by-michael-nygard/index.md).

#### 24-10-2022 - Init
Set up GitHub Pages with Jekyll following this [guide](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/setting-up-a-github-pages-site-with-jekyll).

#### 30-10-2022 - Integrated Google Analytics
Added the script GA provided in `_includes/` and the ID in `_config.yml`.

Subsequently removed the GA script from `_includes/`. [Minima](https://github.com/jekyll/minima), the theme being used, just required GA ID to be added in `_config.yml`.

#### 31-10-2022 - Integrated Disqus
Disqus supports both reactions and comments. Minima has first class support for it. Just need to add a Disqus ID to `_config.yml`.

#### 31-10-2022 - Removed Disqus
Disqus doesn't fit well with the theme. Removed it and looking for an alternative.

#### 31-10-2022 - Integrated [Giscus](https://giscus.app/)
It's built using GitHub Discussions, requires a GitHub repo to work, which I have. Minima doesn't support it though out of the box, so have to start looking under the hood now.

**RISK:** Seems the post layout isn't extensible, which is where I want to add the comments box. The workaround is to copy [`_layouts/post.html`](https://github.com/jekyll/minima/blob/master/_layouts/post.html) from the Minima theme into my repo and make changes into that file. It's not pretty, and it is a risk that might break future upgrades to the theme :(

#### 31-10-2022 - Integrated [Applause](https://applause-button.com/)
Applause is a simple, no config library that will allow readers to like posts.
  - Upgraded Minima from v2.5 to v3.0 because the older version doesn't support `_includes/custom-head.html` which is where I need to add the include scripts for Applause.
  - v3.0 is not available as a Gem, so pulling theme from GitHub now. `_config.yml` says `remote_theme: jekyll/minima` now instead of `theme: minima`.

#### 31-10-2022 - Custom CSS
Added custom CSS for the applause button to center it and add top/bottom margins. The css is added to `assets/css/style.scss`.

#### 06-12-2022 - Recent posts
Added recent posts in `post.html` to increase readership.

#### 22-12-2022 - Show tags on homepage
Copied [`_layouts/home.html`](https://github.com/jekyll/minima/blob/master/_layouts/home.html) into local repo to be able to customize it.
Tags are displayed against each post preview.

#### 23-12-2022 - See posts by tag
Followed a [blog](http://www.jasonemiller.org/2020/12/23/tagging-posts-in-jekyll-minima.html) to show posts by tag under the URL `/tag/{tag}`.
A python script `tag-pages-generator.py` generates a page for each tag since Jekyll I assume is rendered server side.
The script needs to be added as part of pipeline otherwise I would manually have to run it whenever a tag is added or updated.

#### 26-12-2022 - Automated `/tag/{tag}` pages generation with GitHub Actions
This site was previously set to deploy from `Deploy from a branch`
which automatically generates a GitHub Actions workflow.
That workflow cannot be edited.

To add custom build steps, the deployment setting 
(Settings > Pages > Build and deployment > Source) 
is now set to `GitHub Actions (beta)`.
A workflow is generated under `.github/workflows/jekyll-gh-pages.yml`.
It is customized to generate tag pages dynamically.

#### 12-06-2023 - Locked Minima theme to a specific git commit
No stylesheet was loaded as I published a new post today.
I am using an unreleased version (3) of Minima by loading source from GitHub.
Looking at issues reported on GitHub, it seems the main branch can contain breaking changes.
Found this [suggestion](https://github.com/jekyll/minima/issues/411#issuecomment-730711365) to lock on to a specific commit and get back to previous working state.